Hello everybody, and welcome back to the Psychology of Your Twenties, the podcast where we talk through some of the big life changes and transitions of our twenties and what they mean for our psychology.
 
Hello everybody, Welcome back to the show. Welcome back to the podcast. New listeners, old listeners, Wherever you are in the world, it is just a delight to have you back here for another episode, for a special episode as we break down the psychology of our twenties. So today we're talking about a subject that I get asked about a whole lot, and that I think actually is one of those core experiences that really defines our twenties, especially for a lot of people who listen to this podcast. It's travel, traveling the world, gap years, semesters, abroad, road trips, your summers, sight seeing, solo traveling. These are all things that are on I would say a lot of our bucket list for those of us in our twenties, because I think a real theme for this decade for many of us is exploration and expansion and growth and having as many experiences as possible, and travel just fits so neatly into that. Travel just has such a magnetic pull during this chapter of our life. You know, psychologists often call our twenties like a developmental suite, spot for new experiences and for experiences that are going to disrupt our routine and expand our worldview. They say that this period is when those opportunities are most formative. So if you have the opportunity to travel and to see the world or just to go to the next town over during this decade, you should absolutely take it because you're going to see so much benefit from something that is also just probably very very enjoyable. You know, during this time when we are trying to figure out who we are, we're trying to figure out our career, we're trying to figure out what kind of life we want to leave. Travel really helps us in this process because it pulls us out of familiar contexts, and it makes us see the world differently, and it makes us, you know, at times uncomfortable, and it challenges us, and it makes us see that the world is large and expansive, and that's really what we need to believe in our twenties in order to I guess open doors for ourselves, in order to explore all the different possibilities, you know, in everyday life, we're surrounded by all the same things, the same cultural norms, the same routines, the same people. When we travel, whether you know we're moving to a new city or we're visiting a foreign country or whatever it is, we strip away all of that normalcy, and in the absence of those familiar cues, we're really being forced to look inward and and kind of decide for ourselves that we are capable and decide for ourselves how we want to think, and how we want to act, and how we want to connect. I think on top of that, the reason people love travel during this decade is, of course it's fun, but it also just makes for really great and iconic stories that we're going to pass down to our kids and our grandkids or to our friends at a nursing home or wherever it is. They become like fibers that kind of create our life. Really, they like become the fibers of this tapestry and of this thing that we're creating. So let's talk about the psychology of travel and why traveling actually is one of the best things we can do for our development during this decade. Firstly, travel brings about a profound sense of cognitive flexibility. Cognitive flexibility is basically our ability to experience new things, new circumstances, new situations, and problem solved despite never being exposed to them before. It's basically our ability to adapt to new ways of thinking and new challenges that we've never encountered. This is one of the most essential skills that our brain develops an early adulthood. You cannot really get anywhere without it, and it is heightened, in fact, through exposure to novel environments like those we find abroad or like those we find traveling. There is actually a science to back this up. A twenty ten study found that people who lived abroad for a semester demonstrated when they returned higher levels of cognitive flexibility and also higher levels of creativity, which is related to cognitive flexibility because when they were within this new culture, they had to adapt and they saw new things. They had to find solutions to unfamiliar problems, they had to negotiate a new kind of way of understanding, and a new meaning. You know, travel doesn't just show us new places, and it isn't just about the joy of the experience. It actually rewires our thinking very deeply. We become more comfortable with ambiguity, more willing to embrace complexity, and more able to really hold multiple perspectives in our mind at once. It's just such an invaluable skill that I think people don't really appreciate when you know, they're having drinks on a beach in Bali, or they're at a hotel in the city over like, they don't realize what they're doing for their brain. It's incredibly powerful. There's also a deeply personal element to this as well. Many of us grow up in environments that are very very controlled. We have our school schedule, we have our family routine, we have cultural expectations. During this decade is the first time that we really want to deliberately step away from these boundaries, or push back against these boundaries, and find out who we are without them. It's a period of individuation, and travel is such a tangible way for us to actually test this newfound independence, in this new sense of self. It does this by challenging what the psychologist Albert Bundura called our self efficacy. I wish we talked about self efficacy more. It is just such a powerful concept. Basically, it's our ability to trust that we can handle challenges. Basically, how much do we believe that we are capable of dealing with things that are difficult or that we can't necessarily yeah predict for example. You know, with travel, self efficacy is tested in the sense that we have to ask ourselves, do I trust myself to be able to navigate this new city? Do I trust myself to be okay if things go wrong? Because with travel something will always go wrong? Do I trust myself to be able to plan and make good decis decisions? Whether you think you can or not, travel is going to force you to do it anyway, and that is essentially a kind of baptism by fire, whereby we are forced to see and forced to be made aware of how truly capable we are that in a way that we can't always do in everyday, normal environments, and that really leads to an important part of travel in our twenties. It's not always glamorous. It can be messy, it can be exhausting, it can be uncomfortable, you know, language barriers and long bus rides and lost luggage and uncomfortable plane rides. But those less than perfect moments actually serve a really important psychological purpose in that they teach us resilience. They show us that discomfort isn't something to fear, but something to move through. This is what we call inoculation by stress or stress inoculations. Essentially, when we experience challenges and when we experience and stress, actually that makes us, I guess, less likely to be stressed in the future. It's inoculating us or protecting us against future spikes and stress levels because we have this evidence within us that we can handle it. We have these experiences to look back on and say, oh, Okay, I've been here before, I've done this before, I've survived, I've had positive experiences out of negative experiences, so I'm going to be okay, I'm going to be just fine. There is another beautiful outcome of travel beyond just cute pictures and souvenirs and fun memories and beverages and what else whatever else there is. It also broadens our sense of empathy. Social psychologists have for a long long time known that exposure to diverse perspectives reduces prejudice. It increases understanding. The more time you spend in another culture around people that you've never met before, you may not understand the more you begin to see that the things you thought were universal are not, and there is more than one way to be human, and you learn to respect that your way is not the best way. That is such a fundamental shift, and it's one that I think we could all obviously be enduring more, experiencing more. The world feels so polarized. That ability, though, to see the common humanity beneath all, beneath what the surface level differences, is a very quiet but radical skill and one that I think we could all agree more people need. Maybe travel is actually the solution to that. Getting out into the world is a way to bring people into this understanding. Also, you know, you build relationships. We know that incidental intimacy and having joint experiences with people that are tough or really deep or emotional, incredible, profound, they make the bond between you and another person even more deep. You know, there's something about being away from home that really encourages a new level of openness. When you don't have the baggage of other people's expectations, or you don't have your usual role or your usual routine, you often feel a lot more freer to be vulnerable and to share things and to be like, you know, I've never told anyone this, but this is you know, I'm processing this like in the moment whilst I'm experiencing these new things with this new person, and that intimacy. It's just like incredibly profound, and it's like no wonder that people come back from trips and they just have a new lease on life and they see the world clearer and they feel like they know themselves better because they're going through all of these deep psychological changes that they don't even recognize. I also think that there is a pragmatic reason why our twenties are often the best time to travel. We have very few responsibilities, well fewer than what we may have later in life, and travel is becoming more accessible. We've got budget airlines, we've got work exchange programs, remote work as well as becoming a lot more popular. There are all these new platforms that offer affordable accommodation, and it's just like opened the world up to us in a way that previous generations didn't have the same privileges as us. It definitely is still a privilege and it is still something that is just like incredibly we are incredibly blessed and lucky to be able to do, but it's no longer solely reserved for people who are incredibly wealthy. And this accessibility matters because it means more people are seeing the developmental benefits and the mindset benefits and the empathy benefits and all the benefits of seeing the world and of going out there and having experiences that make them feel more in touch with your human side and that make you feel more aligned with who you are and what you want from the world and what you want from humanity and what you want from your life. I know, it's so crazy when you talk about travel, people just like, oh, yes, my fun like spring break trip, and it's like, no, there is a there are deep psychological principles, and there is a narrative that is being that you have about your life that is being shaped by these experiences. No wonder people who are older always want to recount the travel stories or always have some brilliant life changing story that happened when they were flying or on a boat or in a foreign place, because these are high points in our life. They are anchor points for our sense of self and reminders of the times when we were bold and we were curious, and we were alive in the world and we felt like ourselves. I want to say this, perhaps one of the most beautiful things about traveling in our twenties is that it does not have to be grand and elaborate and expensive. There is undeniable magic and you know, I don't know walking the walking the Pacific Crush Trail, or seeing the Eiffel Tower or going on your dream trip, but actually some of the most impactful experiences do come from smaller moments, like the trip that was only in our car ride away or a weekend in an airbnb. We place a lot of emphasis on big destinations, but it turns out you can receive the wonder and joy of travel from just about any new environment you haven't been in before. In the end, I think it really all comes down to are you witnessing things you have never witnessed before in your life? Are you experiencing the novelty of this moment? Are you growing in and are you challenging yourself in ways that perhaps you wouldn't have Are you just seeing the world differently? That is really where the power of this comes from. With that in mind, though, traveling can also kind of take a toll on us emotionally and physically and mentally, which is something we don't talk about all the time. But it turns out there are a lot of people out there interested in and researching how to travel better so that we can get the most out of our trips, get the most out of this experience, starting with the flight, starting with the moment we leave our house. And I got the privilege of being able to interview one of those very people. So stay tuned, stick around for more. We're going to dive even deeper into this topic after this short break. So now that we've discussed the psychology and the emotional importance of travel in our twenties, I want to get a little bit further into the physicality of it, the biology of it, the science of kind of travel and well being. And like I said, this is not my area of expertise. Yes, I jump on an airplane every now and again, but I wanted to talk to someone who really understood all the other sides of this better than me, and who better than doctor Henry Ting, who was a world renowned cardiologist. He also joined Delta Airlines in twenty twenty one as the Global Airlines Chief Health and Wellness officer. There is quite literally no better person I think to talk to about this than him.
 
Welcome, doctor Ting, pleasure to be here with you, Gemma.
 
I'm very very excited for this. Before we jump into the questions that I have for you about your research and Telta's research, can you we just know a little bit more about you and your background as a doctor.
 
Yeah, thanks, Shema. First, please call me Henry. I'm not your doctor, but I'm a cardiologist by train. I trained in Boston and worked for over twenty years at the Male Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, and I joined Delta Airlines in twenty twenty one, as you said, as the airlines first chief health and Wellness officer.
 
Which is honestly such a cool concept because I had never thought about the fact that spending time in the air is such a weird thing for humans to be doing, and it obviously like does sometimes affect us like mentally and physically in terms of jet lag and in terms of well being. So the fact that you've joined in that capacity is super cool. I also want to talk more specifically about a recent experiment that you guys kind of conducted. So you guys have launched a new campaign in a new series that really explores the connection between travel and well being. But as part of that, you did some really cool research. And you guys know on this podcast, we love our science. We love our research. It's tasty. Can you dive into the premise of this for me?
 
So, Gemma, I'm a foodie like you, So things that taste good I'm really excited about. But I think, you know, we take a step back. Travel has made the world smaller, right, particularly airline travel. It's opened up possibilities that many of us imagine we're not possible. And now you get on a flight for three, six or ten hours, you can be in the other side of the world, meeting people, places, experiences that you couldn't have imagined. And I think that's a remarkable, fantastic thing for all of us. And you know, I think most of us probably couldn't live without it in terms of the possibilities opens up. But specific to your question, Yeah, we conducted an experiment with some gen Z creators about the impact of travel and the experiment was called Fly and Live Better. One Delta wants to create a seamless, premium experience for all of our customers in flight but we feel like the flight experience can also help you live better. And when we talk about the flight experience, it starts with your idea that you want to go somewhere, and that you plan the trip, and that you get to the airport and you check in, and the in flight experience and arriving at your destination refreshed and ready to enjoy whatever it is that's on your mind, whether that's business or pleasure.
 
And so you kind of wanted to see how we could do this better, right, and how we could kind of elevate the experience. Talk me through what happened in this kind of research. I know you guys set some people on some flights, you gathered some data. Yeah, tell me about how that went. Goes in depth on the procedures you want, because I feel like we love to know, Yeah, exactly what the data was and all of the changes. And you had four people, right, Can you talk a bit more about their experiences?
 
Yeah, So we had four content creators or social media influencers. Their names were Gabe and Luan, as well as Sophie and Semi. There were two pairs and we wanted to see the effects of travel on their health and well being and all of them were given AURA ring to where to measure their physiologic parameters, so including their ready to score, their sleep score, their activity score during travel and at the destination as well as they were given a survey to assess their emotional and social wellbeing during the trip and when they returned. And part of the research was to send these two pairs of people to different destinations. One was a premium bucket list location in Copenhagen where they sent you flew Delta one stayed at a five star hotel and had premium experiences in Copenhagen. And the second was a more local, closer trip which we felt was also very much more accessible and fun but didn't require the long flight or the change in time zones, and that was the Seattle Washington and they flew Delta comfort, they had access to our sky clubs and they also had curated Delta experiences in Seattle, and during the trip we had the oral ring on them, so we were able to get metrics of their readiness score, their sleep score, their activity score, as well as surveys of their emotional social well being on the trip.
 
And I have to ask was it different between the long haul flight and the short domestic flight because as someone who I feel like, I fly overseas not all the time, but quite a bit, and when I fly overseas, it kind of takes it out of me. Did you see a difference between those two groups.
 
Oh, yeah, very much so.
 
I think what was good about both is their emotional or mental well being and social wellbeing went through the roof on boat trips. Both trips were eye opening, including the trip to Seattle which was more local and accessible, as well as the bucket list trip to Copenhagen. On boat trips, their emotional well being and social wellbeing escalated. And really because of I think the people and the experiences and different cultures you were able to see. The differences we saw were more on physical well being, activity and sleep. Obviously, you know, when you have this longer flight to Copenhagen in Europe and it's a six to eight hour flight, it does take a lot out of you, whereas a shorter three hour flight to Seattle it was much easier for them to acclimate adjust to.
 
But you know what I love about what you're saying is that the long haul flight, the short domestic travel, or the dream trip to Copenhagen versus you know, the around the corner trip for these participants to Seattle both had very similar mental and social perks and benefits. And you know why I think that that is such a cool finding from this is because obviously, like we talk about people in their twenties, right, and there's this huge emphasis on doing your eurogap year or traveling to as many countries as possible or you know, bucket list travel items, and definitely online we see people doing these amazing trips, and I love that what you're saying is just traveling in general, even if it's like to the town next door or to the city like over the way, is still going to give you that kind of social and cultural and psychological and emotional expansion, which I think actually we need to talk about a little bit more because again, it's not just these overseas amazing trips that are going to give that to you. It's these like small moments of intention.
 
Right absolutely.
 
I think after they came back, we did a couple of interviews with them, and it was interesting when I asked them, did you get more from a shorter trip that was closer or did you get more from a longer trip that was further away, and it wasn't a simple answer. The answers were different, and I think as the whole, the fact of traveling and seeing different places and of itself was rewarding. And you know, at Delta and we'd like to say, no one better connects the world. And for us, that's connecting not just people to places and destinations, it's connecting people to other people, other cultures, and ultimately experiences that can't really be replicated by you know, oculus or a pair of goggles and virtual reality. You know, being able to smell the flowers or go on the bike ride and feel the wind blowing your hair. Those are things that you can only experience in person. And it was pretty fun to hear from these content creators that some of these views, be in Seattle, on Copenhagen or dinners or experiences were so fantastic they had to quickly create their content and then put that aside so they can actually enjoy the experience.
 
Okay, this is this is also a cool finding that you're telling me, is that when we are like in these spaces, travel actually allows us to disconnect further from you know, social media, and yeah, for them their work, which is something that I also find when I'm traveling. I'm like, it just like unlocks a whole new side of creativity for me as well, because you get out of the space that is known, and you get out of you know your responsibilities, and you're able to just be present as kind of as humans were intended to be, Like they were intended to be curious and they were we are intended to be to explore and to witness nature and witness beauty. Yeah, it's actually quite poetic, but I want to talk about something less poetic but just as important to our humanness, which is the physical impacts of flying and also how we can better fly for our health. I feel like this generation is so health conscious and I know I am as well, and so any way that I can like elevate and experience so that my body endures less or so that I feel better is so important to me. What did you find with that? What does flying kind of do from a physical perspective, and how can we manage those things?
 
Yeah, let's start with some of the findings we had, you know, for the shorter trip, the four to five hour flight the Seattle.
 
You know, our people arrived ready.
 
Their ready to score was high and remained high. Their sleep score actually improved, so even though there were time zone three hours apart, score on average improved eight points, and their activity score was much higher because they got out and about and they walked and they biked and they were physically active. And that's what we saw in Seattle, that there wasn't much of a physical toll from the travel or a sleep perspective. They arrived ready, refreshed and able to enjoy the location. Now the bucket list or dream trip to Copenhagen obviously a longer trip six hour time zone difference. You know, they flew Delta one first class, and they were in the Delta one club before flight, and they loved the flight, including the beverages and the food and the premium service. But when you look at when they arrived, their ready score was lower. Their sleep score dropped by nearly twenty points on their or ring. I like to say by top sleep score ever in my orro ring was on ninety four, so dropping to seventy four would be pretty dramatic for me.
 
YEA.
 
Their activity score was high, so even though they were sleep deprived, tired, they still got out and did a lot of physical activities that was on average as high or not higher than what they were doing at their home.
 
And here's the thing. I feel like when you're in your twenties and thirties and when you're younger, it's like, I want to get every single little thing out of this experience. Like if I've flown first class, which that's like a I would yeah bucket LIS's item. If I've flown first class and I'm in this beautiful city, who cares if I'm jet lacked, Like, I'm going to go and have pastries, and I'm going to go shopping, and I'm going to go see the museums like you bet. And then it's like day two and you're like, I need to sleep for the next twenty four hours or I'm not going to hear a zombie. And you were talking to me earlier, like we were talking the other day about how you can kind of have the best of both worlds. Yeah, some of the stratag gs that we can kind of adopt to land to have our readiness score higher, maybe our sleep score a little bit lower, but not as low as as it has to be. Particularly I remember you talking about the importance of understanding your circadian rhythm. Can you expand on that a little bit?
 
Yeah, I mean the circadian rhythm is your own biological clock for a twenty four hour day night cycle. And if you think back in time before we had electricity and lights, that circadian rhythm was driven by daylight or sunlight, and everybody was on the same circadian rhythm.
 
No one flew anywhere, but.
 
Everybody was on the same day night cycle or circadian rhythm. But as you think about the advances in our society and community, No, we invented electricity, we invented lights, we invented computers, we invented windows or rooms without windows that completely disrupted our circadian rhythms. And if you think about or travel, does you and I, although you live in Australia and I live in Atlanta, we have our own circadian rhythms of day night, when we're supposed to be awake, when we sleep and get all activities done. And when you travel to a different times on this six hours apart. You may be physically in Copenhagen, but physiologically your body's function and your brain function is not at the same time that your body physically is there. So there's a separation between your physical person in Copenhagen and your physiologic person. Everything that you know and you do and how you think and how much energy you have and how much focus you have is still in Atlanta. But there are things you can do to accelerate that conversion to a times on this six hours different and the things that you can do that make it worse. And those are the things I think we can talk about that are science based that would help a traveler arrive refreshed and convert to that time zone faster.
 
Yeah, so this is what I need to know because I've got to say, You're going to be mad at me, Henry. But when I get on a plane, I I'm I'm having my melotone and gummies and I'm also having a glass of wine. That's probably not the right thing to do, can you, Because I know, like the biggest one is like avoid set of lives, avoid alcohol. Why is that so important to do? Because I feel like a lot of us are like, well, I want to adjust. So I'm going to, you know, try and push myself to sleep faster on the plane or delay sleep when I get there. What's wrong with it with the set of lives and the alcohol in this situation.
 
Yeah, well you said it right. The sedatives, the gummies, the alcohol. They may actually make you tired and have you fall asleep, but it's not restorative RESTful sleep. We know that the restorative RESTful sleep is your REM sleep, rapid eye boom a sleep, as well as your deep sleep. And believe it or not, sedatives and hypnotics like melatonin, ambient valium, or the gummies, they actually cause sleep, but not the right sleep. They don't adduce the deep sleep and the REM sleep. So even though you've been asleep for five hours eight hours, you're not rested because your body gets restorative RESTful sleep with the deep sleep and REM sleep. And that's why the ambient, the valuum, the alcohol, those are actually bad for you, you know. And some people, I'll take it to the next level. Some people arrive on scene and get their ivy fluid infusions. And the fluids could be yellow, blue, and green. That might rehydrate you and make you feel temporarily better. What I worry about why the fluid is green, blue, and yellow and what additives are in there? But two, it doesn't really restore the body. It makes you feel temporarily better, so you can do that activity, but it doesn't really restore your body physically, just to get a leader of IV fluid.
 
So what you're saying is we're doing all these things thinking and helping, but what we should really be doing is what should we be doing in terms of resinking our circadian rhythm?
 
Yeah?
 
Yeah, so those give you a short term benefit, but there's probably a long term cost your pain, right because you'll probably arrive home needing a vacation from your vacation and to get more rest before you can re enter your work life. So let's get back to this circadian rhythm. Light is important. We know that blue wavelength light is what stimulates your brain and the receptors in your retina to be alert and active for your daytime activities. We know that it's not just any blue cutter light. There's a specific wavelength of blue light that particularly informs your brain that says, hey, it's daytime, it's time to be awake and stimulate you to be alert and active and have energy. And there's an opposite spectrum of light that's a red orange wavelength that starts telling your brain and the receptition red. Now to relax, to decrease your energy level on your alertness, and to prepare for sleep. And that's what you get if all you're exposed to was sunlight without computers, iPads, iPhones and light bulbs. And how do we then convert that time using light as a key component. So one technology or product I like to talk about that we've used is something called skyview lighting. This is not just colored lighting. Skyview lighting actually is a specific light that transmits a color that's blue wavelength specifically.
 
For alertness the day.
 
And you can actually program it on your app to time it for the day in Copenhagen, Seattle, or Atlanta or Australia. But then it automatically realizes the twenty four hour cycle and changes the color to red and orange tore pare you for sleep. So that it's something you can do to almost tell your brain when it's daylight and when it's nighttime and do it with light as opposed to sunlight. Now, the science behind this is quite fascinating. I'm sure you'd be interested in it. This company was started by scientists that used to work at NASA physicists and they realize that in the International Space Station, which orbits the Earth, the day night cycle of sunrise and sunset is ninety minutes, and their windows on the space station which can't be closed, so you're experiencing day and night every ninety minutes. And there's a crew of ten astronauts who are expected to work in harmony and synchrony to maintain the space station and do the research they're doing, and they have to be on the same circadian rhythm. One person can't be asleep while the other person is ready to do the experiments or the research. What they found is, without any intervention, the astronauts were becoming one to two hours per day separated in their circadian rhythm as every day went by. And what they also found was seventy eighty percent of the astronauts were taking medications for sleep because they were trying to get sleep at the same time. But what they did was they put the skyview light in the space station, and with thirty minutes of exposure to that light every single day, they can keep the ten astronauts on the same circadian rhythm day and night, so they can be functional, alert and active, working as a team, if you will, working as a fully functional team. This kind of lighting has also been useful for submarines in the military, right because if you're in the submarine and you're actually deployed underneath the water for two months with no daylight or sunlight, this at least tells your brain this is daytime and now this is nighttime, and keeps the entire crew of three hundred submriners to be working as a team, as a functional single team. And the last group where this has been shown to be particularly effective is in places like Alaska where in the winter you have twenty three hours of night and we know that prolonged nighttime or prolonged darkness can lead to seasonal effective disorders, that people can get mental health issues. So having this light be exposed to it and have the exposure to an artificial sunlight was very, very useful. I can tell you that those are the scientific basis of how this skyview light has been used. Today, we've got sports teams like the New York Mets having this in their locker room so that all their players can be fresh and learn ready when the game starts.
 
Yeah, so what you're saying to me is like, if you want to fly better, you need to start really understanding the power of light, right Yeah.
 
So, uh, you know, we are working with Skyview right now, Delta's partner with Skyview to try to get a miniaturized version of this light because the current lights are large, they are overhead lights, they are large set slamps. But we're working on a miniaturized version that's no bigger than a small iPad that you can take with you as carry on and you can put into your hotel room or put into wherever you are, so you have exposure to blue light and red orange light depending on circadian rhythm. We're really excited about it because this can help you convert your time and the different time zones faster. So that hopefully will be ready for testing, and we're going to test it with our crew and the next couple of months and see if that works. I would like to pivot actually to another company we've worn with, which is called fount and fly Kit.
 
Have it.
 
You have one right here?
 
It's this and this is the product they sell, Fountain fly k It. Again, this is interventions you can do to try to convert your circadian rhythm faster. Right, So if we do nothing, we'll probably convert to that six to eight hour time zone difference over a matter of two to four days, depending on how quickly you acclimate and adjust. If you do the valume melatonin ambient and gummies actually may delay it and take longer. This again, like Skyview, is meant to try to decrease that conversion to a matter of one or two days. So this company was founded by some Navy Seals. You know, as you think about the Navy Seals and our military, they may need to deploy and they need that crew ready to carry out their mission. And using supplements, they actually look at your time zone. They have an app depending on where you're flying, your specific fly, what time you're flying, the time zone difference. When you arrive, their app tells you when you take these supplements, which includes a mixture of magnesium, vitamin C, vitamin B six, vitamin B twelve, as well as omega three fatty acids, really to help your body adjust to that local time zone faster, and they can actually show you how much you shifted. Within the app. It also recommends when you should eat, what you should eat, how much you should eat, and when you should go to bed. Again, trying to help your body, make that time zone conversion faster so you arrive ready, refresh to enjoy your trip. And lastly, what they provide in the kit is my favorite, which is these blue blocker glasses. These blue blocker glasses essentially will block out ninety nine percent of that blue light we talked about, so if you put it down, everything looks like a shade of orange. You've seen these being sold by other makers, but these are well made. They block out ninety nine percent of that blue wavelength light, so that when it's nighttime and you're still on your iPad, your iPhone or in your computer like you're now, you can put this on and you can do your activity, but you're not getting the blue wavelength light that's keeping you awake, alert as of it's daytime. So with that combination, you're able to convert your time so much faster. And the most exciting thing that I think flight Kit are working on is trying to create what we call a digital twin, So creating a digital twin of Gemma so that we know that this what is this digital twin's physiologic circadian rhythm in Copenhagen, and how far is she deviated from the actual time in Copenhagen versus the time in Australia.
 
Depending on where you want to be right, you can set your time.
 
To I'm going to Australia tomorrow, I want to be ready for Australia, or I'm Copenhagen for a week and I want to be in the time zone of Copenhagen. So that digital twin can tell you based on measurables biometrics as well as if you've taken the supplements, if you've done the exercises, if you've done the eating and sleeping, where are you in terms of your conversion.
 
That is honestly amazing, And the fact that people haven't done this sooner is shocking to me because I would be I'm signing up for all of these things. I like the light idea, like if I could pack that in my carry on and that's going to save me like a day of explore time, Like I'm doing that in a heartbeat. And also the fact that you're saying to me, like what we eat and when we choose to sleep, even if it's like fifteen minutes earlier, can make such profound shifts. I feel like it's going to prevent us from going into travel and being like okay, cool, So I've just lost two days when it's probably been really expensive for me to get here, and this is like a once in a lifetime trip, like you want all of that time maximized. And I think it sorry to make one final point because I'm kind of just blown away by this. I think it also emphasizes that we think of travel as like purely, I don't really know how we think of it. We just think of it as like a form of transport. But it is so mental, and it is so emotional and emotional and physical, and there is like a deeper meaning to it. So talk about how Delta specifically can personalize and it is thinking about wellness more as part of someone's journey to their destination.
 
Yeah, we know that travel can be hard, right.
 
You know there are delays.
 
You know, there are times when it's very crowded in every seat, and a lot of people, like you said, think of air travel as how do I get from point A to point B with the most least amount of burden or trauma to be But at Delta, we're trying to reimagine that. We're thinking about your whole curb to claim experience as a holistic experience, and how can we make that travel experience as seamless and as delightful as possible. So it starts with our flight Delta app right, because this is where you plan a trip and you book your flights, you check in for your boarding pass, and you know when you're supposed to arrive, and you board the plane. But I think every step along the way, we're trying to make that experience as personalized to you as possible. Understanding you are a traveler with Delta, that you're not just traveling with us. Once we know that if Gemma is one of our sky Mouse members and has travel with us multiple times, we know what she prefers, we know what she likes, we know what she's looking for. Using that information to cater or create your future travel experiences is what we're aiming for. So to that end, for example, we now have a sky Mouse members free Wi Fi high speed Wi Fi for every single person on board, to the point where if you're a sky Mouse member, you're any of our planes, whether it's within the United States or international, you can link up to our Wi Fi and stream Netflix. You can look at YouTube TV, who's an exclusive partner of Delta with their content that's coming. We're also partnered with Uber so that if you arrive and we know that you want an Uber you could book that in flight with the Wi Fi and schedule it, or you can book it as soon as you're ready the plane. All those are personalized experiences and a seamless experience for our travelers, and I think that's one of the benefits of actually considering not choosing just the lowest cost flight you can get from a land to to Australia, that you consider becoming a loyalty member like a Skypow member with Delta or other airlines, where this opens up a world of experiences and curated experiences for you, including I think one of the things I love the most is we recently added Shakeshack Burgers on our flights, which can order in advance.
 
Oh, I saw this.
 
It's a great on TikTok.
 
Yeah, that's so cool.
 
I just had it on my trip from Salt Lake City to New York and I gotta say it was as good as a Shakesheck burger.
 
At the restaurant.
 
The burger was smashed crispy on the outside. They separated the buns so it didn't get soggy. The lettuce, tomatoes and onions were in a separate bowl, and they gave you their shakesheck brownie and.
 
The potato chips.
 
It was delicious, and to know that you can order that before the flight was fantastic and knowing that it was ready for you. The other thing we've had a few years ago is you know, if you're checking in a bag, we now tell you when it's been loaded, so you know that your bag has been loaded on a plane, and then when it's coming off the plane and when it's at the claim, so you never have to worry that my bag make it with me, is it still left in Australia and I'm flying to New York. So those are the things that are just so fantastic, and hopefully we're hoping that you know, given it's twenty twenty five and everybody's digital in AI enhanced, that you can do all these things within the flight out the app, and that you never have to call someone or go in line, and even in the setting of an irap or irregular operations where whether or something else is interrupting the flight, that you can change a flight or rebook another flight, or have something done for you right within the app.
 
The fact I don't know who your product team is, but they are working over time, because that is every single thing and every single frustration I have ever had with flying gone like is my bag missing?
 
Oh?
 
How am I going to get to my hotel the airport? Do I have to pack my own snacks? Because the airplane food is like not very tasty? Like am I gonna have? Am I gonna be able to like work on the fly? All done, all minimized, which is like I love when companies are just like, yeah, we recognize that's a problem, and we're not just gonna be like deal with it. We're going to actually do something about it. I'm a big I'm a big fan. And also I will say advice to my twenty something listeners, which is probably all of you, please sign up for sky Miles, or please sign up for a loyalty program with your airline. Obviously we're hoping that it's Delta for for Henry, but it's like this thing that I wish I'd started doing earlier. And I was actually at my run club the other day and my friend was showing me all the air miles that she had accumulated over like years of travel, and we did the math and this was just like incidental travel, like she's going home for a funeral or she had to fly for work. You know, she went to Europe last year and we were looking at all the miles and it was like she could go to New York for free. It's like an investment. It's like investing, and it's you literally aren't doing anything other than just doing the normal travel that you would do. But if you I always think it's worth paying more to travel with the same airline because you get these perks and because you get this thing at the end of the day, like it's worth the fifty dollars more of the seventy five dollars more because you literally get free flights out of it. So I'm glad you brought that up. I do have one final question for you, because we've been chatting away for a while, maybe two final questions, but I'm going to start with this one, which is from your experience, from your experience when you were younger to where you are now. What is one thing you wish people in their twenties knew about travel or did differently about air travel. What's a piece of advice for us?
 
One of the things I think, you know, what I've realized is very few people get on a plane to get miles.
 
Right. When people get on a plane to travel somewhere.
 
No one's doing it just to get their sky miles or loyalty perks. People get on a plane for a reason, and that reason could be business, that reason could be for pleasure, that reason could be a funeral. Right, everybody's got a purpose when they get on the plane. And I think travel in twenty twenty five has become so ubiquitous and different now. The thing that's made the most difference for me is self care. And whether you're flying premium in first class or you're in the back of the plane in the middle row, there are things you can do to make that experience better for yourself in terms of self care. Right, Delta's going to do everything possible to personalize to enhance your experience. But things that I do now that I don't travel without are I love my imask that's memory foam and goes over my face. I love my sleep hello that you know prevents me from having a creek on my neck if I fall asleep, and I remind myself to drink a lot of water and drink a lot of hydration, and that is, you know, sort of foundational change if we can all remember that.
 
M also to add to your list noise canceling headphones.
 
Guys. Yeah, you've got to invest in I got that.
 
Yeah, it's a new world, right, it's like way it's quiet.
 
I know.
 
The first time I ever bought noise canceling headphones was like when because I actually don't we haven't talked about this at all, but I used to have a really big fear of flying, and which is I don't know how this hasn't come up, but other listeners are.
 
Jim, I would tell you, and I want to reassure you. Commercial airline flying is probably of the safest activities you can do. It's safer than driving, and it's safer than walking on the streets of New York. In terms of accidents, we really don't see them. Despite some of the things you see, it is still absolutely very safe. And I can tell you that the airlines across the world compete on everything except safety. You know, whether you're air Frants, KLM, Delta, we all share safety protocols and we strive to be the safest form of travel period, full stop.
 
And I think you're in good hands.
 
I hope you feel safer and better about flying.
 
I do look at that little industry secret, guys, that is actually I did not know that. That makes me feel a lot better. I think this is all we have time for. I want to thank you so much for joining me and with all your knowledge and all your insight and sharing like the latest and greatest developments. I think the real takeaway from this episode is just to be intentional about your trip and to be intentional about self care on your trip.
 
Would you agree, absolutely, it's absolutely to be intentional, and you know from our creators on their trips, the last thing I would advise your listeners is find out what makes you feel better and brings you joy. And for Gabe it was playing his guitar. For Luan, it was journaling. Send Me also enjoyed journaling. For Sophie it was getting a massage. But each of us has something that brings us joy and helps us restore ourselves and that self care component. So thank you for the supportation and I really appreciated talking with you.
 
Yeah, don't neglect it just because you're traveling. Guys, you don't want to come back and need another vacation from your vacation. Thank you again to everyone who has listened and who has joined us for this episode. I want to invite you to watch the Fly and Live Better series on YouTube. It is very, very cool, and I love when companies do their own research and bring like an experimental perspective to an everyday experience. I'm going to leave a link in the description and also join sky Miles for access to more experiences. That's my biggest tip for people in their twenties. Join a loyalty program, join sky Miles. Even if you literally only travel once a year, you have no idea how much it adds up. But again, thank you to Henry and as always, be safe, be kind, to be gentle to yourself. We will talk very very soon.
